README.md, before:

# GoodJob

GoodJob is a multithreaded, Postgres-based, ActiveJob backend for Ruby on Rails.

**Inspired by [Delayed::Job](https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job) and [Que](https://github.com/que-rb/que), GoodJob is designed for maximum compatibility with Ruby on Rails, ActiveJob, and Postgres to be simple and performant for most workloads.**

- **Designed for ActiveJob.** Complete support for [async, queues, delays, priorities, timeouts, and retries](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_job_basics.html) with near-zero configuration. 
- **Built for Rails.** Fully adopts Ruby on Rails [threading and code execution guidelines](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/threading_and_code_execution.html) with [Concurrent::Ruby](https://github.com/ruby-concurrency/concurrent-ruby). 
- **Backed by Postgres.** Relies upon Postgres integrity and session-level Advisory Locks to provide run-once safety and stay within the limits of `schema.rb`.
- **For most workloads.** Targets full-stack teams, economy-minded solo developers, and applications that enqueue less than 1-million jobs/day.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'good_job'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

## Usage

1. Create a database migration:
    ```bash
    $ bin/rails g migration CreateGoodJobs
    ```

    Add to the newly created migration file:

    ```ruby
    class CreateGoodJobs < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
      def change
        enable_extension 'pgcrypto'

        create_table :good_jobs, id: :uuid do |t|
          t.timestamps

          t.text :queue_name
          t.integer :priority
          t.jsonb :serialized_params
          t.timestamp :scheduled_at
          t.timestamp :performed_at
          t.timestamp :finished_at
          t.text :error

          add_index :good_jobs, :scheduled_at, where: "(finished_at IS NULL)"
          add_index :good_jobs, [:queue_name, :scheduled_at], where: "(finished_at IS NULL)"
        end
      end
    end
    ```
    
    Run the migration:
    
    ```bash
    $ bin/rails db:migrate
    ```
    
1. Configure the ActiveJob adapter:
    ```ruby
    # config/application.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = :good_job
    ```
    
    By default, using `:good_job` is equivalent to manually configuring the adapter:
    
    ```ruby
    # config/environments/development.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :inline)
   
    # config/environments/test.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :inline)
   
    # config/environments/production.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :external)
    ```

1. Queue your job 🎉: 
    ```ruby
    YourJob.set(queue: :some_queue, wait: 5.minutes, priority: 10).perform_later
    ```

1. In production, the scheduler is designed to run in its own process:
    ```bash
    $ bundle exec good_job
    ```
   
   Configuration options available with `help`:
   ```bash
   $ bundle exec good_job help start
   
   # Usage:
   #  good_job start
   #
   # Options:
   #   [--max-threads=N]         # Maximum number of threads to use for working jobs (default: ActiveRecord::Base.connection_pool.size)
   #   [--queues=queue1,queue2]  # Queues to work from. Separate multiple queues with commas (default: *)
   #   [--poll-interval=N]       # Interval between polls for available jobs in seconds (default: 1)
   ```

### Taking advantage of ActiveJob

ActiveJob has a rich set of built-in functionality for timeouts, error handling, and retrying. For example:

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base  
  # Retry errors an infinite number of times with exponential back-off
  retry_on StandardError, wait: :exponentially_longer, attempts: Float::INFINITY

  # Timeout jobs after 10 minutes
  JobTimeoutError = Class.new(StandardError)
  around_perform do |_job, block|
    Timeout.timeout(10.minutes, JobTimeoutError) do
      block.call
    end
  end
end
```
   
### Configuring Job Execution Threads
    
GoodJob executes enqueued jobs using threads. There is a lot than can be said about [multithreaded behavior in Ruby on Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/threading_and_code_execution.html), but briefly:

- Each GoodJob execution thread requires its own database connection, which are automatically checked out from Rails’s connection pool. _Allowing GoodJob to schedule more threads than are available in the database connection pool can lead to timeouts and is not recommended._ 
- The maximum number of GoodJob threads can be configured, in decreasing precedence:
    1. `$ bundle exec good_job --max_threads 4`
    2. `$ GOOD_JOB_MAX_THREADS=4 bundle exec good_job`
    3. `$ RAILS_MAX_THREADS=4 bundle exec good_job`
    4. Implicitly via Rails's database connection pool size (`ActiveRecord::Base.connection_pool.size`)

### Migrating to GoodJob from a different ActiveJob backend

If your application is already using an ActiveJob backend, you will need to install GoodJob to enqueue and perform newly created jobs _and_ finish performing pre-existing jobs on the previous backend.

1. Enqueue newly created jobs on GoodJob either entirely by setting `ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :good_job` or progressively via individual job classes:

    ```ruby
    # jobs/specific_job.rb
    class SpecificJob < ApplicationJob
      self.queue_adapter = :good_job
      # ...
    end
    ```

1. Continue running executors for both backends. For example, on Heroku it's possible to run [two processes](https://help.heroku.com/CTFS2TJK/how-do-i-run-multiple-processes-on-a-dyno) within the same dyno:
    ```procfile
    # Procfile
    # ...
    worker: bundle exec que ./config/environment.rb & bundle exec good_job & wait -n
    ```

1. Once you are confident that no unperformed jobs remain in the previous ActiveJob backend, code and configuration for that backend can be completely removed.

### Monitoring and preserving worked jobs

GoodJob is fully instrumented with [`ActiveSupport::Notifications`](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_instrumentation.html#introduction-to-instrumentation).

By default, GoodJob will delete job records after they are run, regardless of whether they succeed or not (raising a kind of `StandardError`), unless they are interrupted (raising a kind of `Exception`). 

To preserve job records for later inspection, set an initializer:

```ruby
# config/initializers/good_job.rb
GoodJob.preserve_job_records = true
```

It is also necessary to delete these preserved jobs from the database after a certain time period:

- For example, in a Rake task:
  
    ```ruby
    # GoodJob::Job.finished(1.day.ago).delete_all
    ```
- For example, using the `good_job` command-line utility:

    ```bash
    $ bundle exec good_job cleanup_preserved_jobs --before-seconds-ago=86400
    ```

## Development

To run tests:

```bash
# Clone the repository locally
$ git clone git@github.com:bensheldon/good_job.git

# Set up the local environment
$ bin/setup_test

# Run the tests
$ bin/rspec
```

This gem uses Appraisal to run tests against multiple versions of Rails:

```bash
# Install Appraisal(s) gemfiles
$ bundle exec appraisal

# Run tests
$ bundle exec appraisal bin/rspec

```

For developing locally within another Ruby on Rails project:

```bash
# Within Ruby on Rails directory...
$ bundle config local.good_job /path/to/local/git/repository

# Confirm that the local copy is used
$ bundle install

# => Using good_job 0.1.0 from https://github.com/bensheldon/good_job.git (at /Users/You/Projects/good_job@dc57fb0)
```

## Releasing

Package maintainers can release this gem with the following [gem-release](https://github.com/svenfuchs/gem-release) command:

```bash
# Sign into rubygems
$ gem signin

# Update version number, changelog, and create git commit:
$ bundle exec rake commit_version[minor] # major,minor,patch

# ..and follow subsequent directions. 
```

## Contributing

Contribution directions go here.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add link to introductory blog post to Readme

README.md, after:

# GoodJob

GoodJob is a multithreaded, Postgres-based, ActiveJob backend for Ruby on Rails.

**Inspired by [Delayed::Job](https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job) and [Que](https://github.com/que-rb/que), GoodJob is designed for maximum compatibility with Ruby on Rails, ActiveJob, and Postgres to be simple and performant for most workloads.**

- **Designed for ActiveJob.** Complete support for [async, queues, delays, priorities, timeouts, and retries](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_job_basics.html) with near-zero configuration. 
- **Built for Rails.** Fully adopts Ruby on Rails [threading and code execution guidelines](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/threading_and_code_execution.html) with [Concurrent::Ruby](https://github.com/ruby-concurrency/concurrent-ruby). 
- **Backed by Postgres.** Relies upon Postgres integrity and session-level Advisory Locks to provide run-once safety and stay within the limits of `schema.rb`.
- **For most workloads.** Targets full-stack teams, economy-minded solo developers, and applications that enqueue less than 1-million jobs/day.

For more of the story of GoodJob, read the [introductory blog post](https://island94.org/2020/07/introducing-goodjob-1-0).

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'good_job'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

## Usage

1. Create a database migration:
    ```bash
    $ bin/rails g migration CreateGoodJobs
    ```

    Add to the newly created migration file:

    ```ruby
    class CreateGoodJobs < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
      def change
        enable_extension 'pgcrypto'

        create_table :good_jobs, id: :uuid do |t|
          t.timestamps

          t.text :queue_name
          t.integer :priority
          t.jsonb :serialized_params
          t.timestamp :scheduled_at
          t.timestamp :performed_at
          t.timestamp :finished_at
          t.text :error

          add_index :good_jobs, :scheduled_at, where: "(finished_at IS NULL)"
          add_index :good_jobs, [:queue_name, :scheduled_at], where: "(finished_at IS NULL)"
        end
      end
    end
    ```
    
    Run the migration:
    
    ```bash
    $ bin/rails db:migrate
    ```
    
1. Configure the ActiveJob adapter:
    ```ruby
    # config/application.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = :good_job
    ```
    
    By default, using `:good_job` is equivalent to manually configuring the adapter:
    
    ```ruby
    # config/environments/development.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :inline)
   
    # config/environments/test.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :inline)
   
    # config/environments/production.rb
    config.active_job.queue_adapter = GoodJob::Adapter.new(execution_mode: :external)
    ```

1. Queue your job 🎉: 
    ```ruby
    YourJob.set(queue: :some_queue, wait: 5.minutes, priority: 10).perform_later
    ```

1. In production, the scheduler is designed to run in its own process:
    ```bash
    $ bundle exec good_job
    ```
   
   Configuration options available with `help`:
   ```bash
   $ bundle exec good_job help start
   
   # Usage:
   #  good_job start
   #
   # Options:
   #   [--max-threads=N]         # Maximum number of threads to use for working jobs (default: ActiveRecord::Base.connection_pool.size)
   #   [--queues=queue1,queue2]  # Queues to work from. Separate multiple queues with commas (default: *)
   #   [--poll-interval=N]       # Interval between polls for available jobs in seconds (default: 1)
   ```

### Taking advantage of ActiveJob

ActiveJob has a rich set of built-in functionality for timeouts, error handling, and retrying. For example:

```ruby
class ApplicationJob < ActiveJob::Base  
  # Retry errors an infinite number of times with exponential back-off
  retry_on StandardError, wait: :exponentially_longer, attempts: Float::INFINITY

  # Timeout jobs after 10 minutes
  JobTimeoutError = Class.new(StandardError)
  around_perform do |_job, block|
    Timeout.timeout(10.minutes, JobTimeoutError) do
      block.call
    end
  end
end
```
   
### Configuring Job Execution Threads
    
GoodJob executes enqueued jobs using threads. There is a lot than can be said about [multithreaded behavior in Ruby on Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/threading_and_code_execution.html), but briefly:

- Each GoodJob execution thread requires its own database connection, which are automatically checked out from Rails’s connection pool. _Allowing GoodJob to schedule more threads than are available in the database connection pool can lead to timeouts and is not recommended._ 
- The maximum number of GoodJob threads can be configured, in decreasing precedence:
    1. `$ bundle exec good_job --max_threads 4`
    2. `$ GOOD_JOB_MAX_THREADS=4 bundle exec good_job`
    3. `$ RAILS_MAX_THREADS=4 bundle exec good_job`
    4. Implicitly via Rails's database connection pool size (`ActiveRecord::Base.connection_pool.size`)

### Migrating to GoodJob from a different ActiveJob backend

If your application is already using an ActiveJob backend, you will need to install GoodJob to enqueue and perform newly created jobs _and_ finish performing pre-existing jobs on the previous backend.

1. Enqueue newly created jobs on GoodJob either entirely by setting `ActiveJob::Base.queue_adapter = :good_job` or progressively via individual job classes:

    ```ruby
    # jobs/specific_job.rb
    class SpecificJob < ApplicationJob
      self.queue_adapter = :good_job
      # ...
    end
    ```

1. Continue running executors for both backends. For example, on Heroku it's possible to run [two processes](https://help.heroku.com/CTFS2TJK/how-do-i-run-multiple-processes-on-a-dyno) within the same dyno:
    ```procfile
    # Procfile
    # ...
    worker: bundle exec que ./config/environment.rb & bundle exec good_job & wait -n
    ```

1. Once you are confident that no unperformed jobs remain in the previous ActiveJob backend, code and configuration for that backend can be completely removed.

### Monitoring and preserving worked jobs

GoodJob is fully instrumented with [`ActiveSupport::Notifications`](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_instrumentation.html#introduction-to-instrumentation).

By default, GoodJob will delete job records after they are run, regardless of whether they succeed or not (raising a kind of `StandardError`), unless they are interrupted (raising a kind of `Exception`). 

To preserve job records for later inspection, set an initializer:

```ruby
# config/initializers/good_job.rb
GoodJob.preserve_job_records = true
```

It is also necessary to delete these preserved jobs from the database after a certain time period:

- For example, in a Rake task:
  
    ```ruby
    # GoodJob::Job.finished(1.day.ago).delete_all
    ```
- For example, using the `good_job` command-line utility:

    ```bash
    $ bundle exec good_job cleanup_preserved_jobs --before-seconds-ago=86400
    ```

## Development

To run tests:

```bash
# Clone the repository locally
$ git clone git@github.com:bensheldon/good_job.git

# Set up the local environment
$ bin/setup_test

# Run the tests
$ bin/rspec
```

This gem uses Appraisal to run tests against multiple versions of Rails:

```bash
# Install Appraisal(s) gemfiles
$ bundle exec appraisal

# Run tests
$ bundle exec appraisal bin/rspec

```

For developing locally within another Ruby on Rails project:

```bash
# Within Ruby on Rails directory...
$ bundle config local.good_job /path/to/local/git/repository

# Confirm that the local copy is used
$ bundle install

# => Using good_job 0.1.0 from https://github.com/bensheldon/good_job.git (at /Users/You/Projects/good_job@dc57fb0)
```

## Releasing

Package maintainers can release this gem with the following [gem-release](https://github.com/svenfuchs/gem-release) command:

```bash
# Sign into rubygems
$ gem signin

# Update version number, changelog, and create git commit:
$ bundle exec rake commit_version[minor] # major,minor,patch

# ..and follow subsequent directions. 
```

## Contributing

Contribution directions go here.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
